Samburu is one of very few places where
elephants are so trusting that's why
this reserve is home to one of the
longest-running studies of elephants in
the world but the last five years have
seen the return of an old problem the
illegal ivory trade david has heard
rumors of poachers in the area and is
concerned that big Frank with his huge
tusks might be in danger the elephants
are heading towards the edge of the
reserve if they reach the road they risk
being spotted by poachers if they
actually get out of the pad for the
poachers with these big guys around
that's a real worry out of all these
elephants here Frank would be one of the
prime targets because he's got the
biggest tusks and the biggest and the
tusks are what they're after
so we've now got to start keeping an eye
out not just for these elephants put
people it's very unlikely we'll see em
because they'll hear us coming first and
they'll hide but they're likely to be
out there
it is very dangerous let's hopefully be
safe and we will try and be with them as
much as we can but there will be a point
where we just stop for the death
a few hours after sunset Frank gets an
urgent phone call there is an elephant
down and elephant has been killed
just before dusk a flurry of gunshots in
this case we found it
we've got a Kenya Wildlife Service and
musubi scout team laying an ambush
around the carcass because it's still
got tusks in it so we think that the
poachers are gonna come and try and get
with us
poachers always go for the biggest of
the biggest ivory so it could be any of
the matriarchs it could be a bull it
could easily be got one big tusks and he
was up in that side this afternoon those
gunshots were heard right by a ranger
post on the south side of the river and
the Buffalo Springs Reserve I think I
mean with we have lost elephants there
before but it's you know it's horrible
you know you watch them how wonderful
and elegant and gentle they are with
each other and then every now and then
come nightfall this awful sound of
bullets and we just just breaks her
heart every time